1.107 SEIZURE
(MED CL/HTV5 - ALL/FIN 3/Paper on ISS/T)
Page 1 of 3 pages

OBJECTIVE:
To give medication to suppress seizure activity. Seizures will cause loss of consciousness and
uncontrolled muscle contraction.

ITEMS:
AA Batteries (four)
Respiratory Support Pack
Medical Diagnostic Pack (Blue):
Blood Oximeter
Oral Medication Pack (Purple):
Phenytoin (Dilantin ER)
Topical & Injectable Medication Pack (Brown):
Diazepam (Valium)

TOOLS:
Digital Camera

1. PROTECTING FROM INJURY
Protect patient from injury by preventing impact of the body with hard structures.
Attempt to locate the patient in the center of a module away from structures.

NOTE
1. Never attempt to pry open or put anything in the mouth during a seizure.

2. Seizures typically last less than a minute.

2. ADMINISTERING INTRAMUSCULAR SHOT

NOTE
Step 2 and step 3 may be performed in parallel if multiple CMOs are available.

2.1 Configure Medication for Injection
Prepare 2 mL Diazepam (Valium) 5 mg/mL for a total of 10 mg [Topical &
Injectable Medication Pack (Brown)].

11 JUN 15
1.107_M_22814.doc

1.107 SEIZURE
(MED CL/HTV5 - ALL/FIN 3/Paper on ISS/T)
Page 2 of 3 pages

If Diazepam (Valium) supplied in a prefilled syringe
Perform 2.14.302 INJECTIONS AND IV – MEDICINE PREPARATION
FOR INJECTION, all (SODF: MED CL: EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND
TREATMENT), then:
Go to step 2.2.

If Diazepam (Valium) supplied in a vial
Perform 2.14.303 INJECTIONS AND IV - DRAWING UP MEDICINE
FROM VIAL, all (SODF: MED CL: EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND
TREATMENT), then:
Go to step 2.2.

2.2 Administer Injection of Medication
Give 2 mL intramuscular shot of Diazepam (Valium) 5 mg/mL.
If required, refer to 2.14.304 INJECTIONS AND IV - INTRAMUSCULAR
SHOT, all (SODF: MED CL: EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND
TREATMENT).

If seizure continues for > 5 minutes or for repeated seizures, repeat
medication administration in 10 minutes.

3. APPLYING BLOOD OXIMETER
Batteries | Blood Oximeter [Medical Diagnostic Pack (Blue)]
Blood Oximeter Sensor | Blood Oximeter

pb Power  Press
pb [Display]  Press until red dot is shown over SpO2 in top display window
Record SpO2 reading from display.
pb Power  Press and hold
If required, refer to 2.0.305 PROCEDURE - BLOOD OXIMETER USE, steps 2.4
through 3 (SODF: MED CL: EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND TREATMENT).

4. ADMINISTERING OXYGEN AND OBTAINING IV ACCESS
4.1 Administer Oxygen
Retrieve Respiratory Support Pack.
Locate Cue Card in lid pocket.
Provide oxygen via Low Flow Non-Rebreather Mask.
Perform 3.201 RESPIRATORY SUPPORT PACK - CUE CARD, Oxygen via
Low Flow Non-Rebreather Mask (SODF: MED CL: REFERENCE), then:

11 JUN 15
1.107_M_22814.doc

1.107 SEIZURE
(MED CL/HTV5 - ALL/FIN 3/Paper on ISS/T)
Page 3 of 3 pages

4.2 Obtain IV Access
Perform 2.14.305 INJECTIONS AND IV - IV ACCESS, all (SODF: MED CL:
EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND TREATMENT), then:

5. PERFORMING A TARGETED PHYSICAL EXAM

NOTE
After a seizure, the patient will be confused for several minutes.

Examine the head, extremities, teeth and tongue for injuries.

6. PHOTO DOCUMENTING INJURIES WITH DIGITAL CAMERA
Photo document any injuries [Digital Camera].

7. ADMINISTERING MEDICATION
7.1 Call MCC-H to request PMC.

7.2 When awake, coherent, and able to swallow, give one capsule of Phenytoin
(Dilantin ER) by mouth, as directed by Surgeon [Oral Medication Pack
(Purple)].

7.3 After two hours, give a second dose of Phenytoin (Dilantin ER) by mouth, or
as directed by Surgeon.

8. OBTAINING HISTORY
8.1 Collect information about the seizure event and the use of medications.

NOTE
It is important to keep individuals' data separate by making separate
folders that are labeled with crew name and GMT day.

8.2 Downlink photos for Surgeon.
If required, refer to 1.480 D4 SETUP – MEDICAL IMAGERY, all (SODF: ISS
PTV: NIKON D4).

9. DIRECTION FROM SURGEON
When directed by Surgeon
Batteries | Blood Oximeter and restow

11 JUN 15
1.107_M_22814.doc
