1.108 DIFFICULTY BREATHING
(MED CL/HTV5 - ALL/FIN 2/Paper on ISS/T)
Page 1 of 3 pages

OBJECTIVE:
To evaluate and start treatment for difficulty breathing.

ITEMS:
AA Batteries (four)
Respiratory Support Pack

Medical Diagnostic Pack (Blue):
Blood Oximeter
Blood Pressure Cuff (select appropriate size)
Blood Pressure Monitor
Stethoscope
Topical & Injectable Medication Pack (Brown):
Albuterol (Proventil HFA)

1. STARTING TREATMENT
1.1 Count Pulse and Respiratory Rate
Measure each by counting for 15 seconds and multiplying by four.
Record data for later reporting to Surgeon.

1.2 Administer Oxygen
Retrieve Respiratory Support Pack.
Locate Cue Card in lid pocket.
Provide oxygen via Low Flow Non-Rebreather Mask.
Perform 3.201 RESPIRATORY SUPPORT PACK - CUE CARD, Oxygen via
Low Flow Non-Rebreather Mask (SODF: MED CL: REFERENCE), then:

1.3 Administer Inhaled Albuterol (Proventil HFA)
Shake the Albuterol (Proventil HFA) Inhaler to mix medication and then
remove cap [Topical & Injectable Medication Pack (Brown)].
Have patient fully exhale and place inhaler in mouth.
Have patient begin to inhale slowly through the mouth and then activate the
inhaler.
Have patient hold breath for 8 to 10 seconds before exhaling.
Deliver a second dose.

20 APR 15
1.108_M_22815.doc

1.108 DIFFICULTY BREATHING
(MED CL/HTV5 - ALL/FIN 2/Paper on ISS/T)
Page 2 of 3 pages

2. APPLYING BLOOD OXIMETER
Batteries | Blood Oximeter [Medical Diagnostic Pack (Blue)]
Blood Oximeter Sensor | Blood Oximeter
pb Power  Press
pb [Display]  Press until red dot is shown over SpO2 in top display window
Record SpO2 reading from display.
pb Power  Press and hold
If required, refer to 2.0.305 PROCEDURE- BLOOD OXIMETER USE, steps 2.4
through 3 (SODF: MED CL: EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND TREATMENT).
3. PERFORMING AIRWAY EXAM
3.1 Inspect Airway
Inspect the mouth and nose, neck and chest looking for changes in normal
anatomy and for increased secretions. Look for increased work of
breathing.

3.2 Assess Lungs
Listen to the lungs on both sides of the chest, front and back [Stethoscope].
Are lung sounds present? Are they of a higher or lower pitch than normal?
If required, refer to 2.0.302 PROCEDURE - STETHOSCOPE USE, all
(SODF: MED CL: EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND TREATMENT).

3.3 Record data for later reporting to Surgeon.

4. OBTAINING BLOOD PRESSURE
Blood Pressure Cuff | Blood Pressure Monitor [Medical Diagnostic Pack
(Blue)]
Blood Pressure Cuff | bare arm (using placement markings as guidelines)
pb [On/Off]  Press
Record pulse and blood pressure from display.
If required, refer to 2.0.304 PROCEDURE - BLOOD PRESSURE MONITOR
USE, all (SODF: MED CL: EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND TREATMENT).

5. OBTAINING HISTORY
5.1 Collect information about the events related to development of symptoms,
use of medications, history of fever and cough, and difficulty of breathing
severity.

5.2 Call MCC-H to request PMC.

20 APR 15
1.108_M_22815.doc

1.108 DIFFICULTY BREATHING
(MED CL/HTV5 - ALL/FIN 2/Paper on ISS/T)
Page 3 of 3 pages

6. DIRECTION FROM SURGEON
When directed by Surgeon
Batteries | Blood Oximeter and restow

20 APR 15
1.108_M_22815.doc
