1.106 TOXIC EXPOSURE
(MED CL/HTV5 - ALL/FIN 3/Paper on ISS/T)
Page 1 of 2 pages

OBJECTIVE:
To decontaminate and treat after toxic exposure.

ITEMS:
Drink Bag
Towel

TOOLS:
Digital Camera

1. RESCUER SAFETY
To minimize the number of crew exposed, take respiratory, eye, and skin
precautions prior to removing patient from exposure.

2. DECONTAMINATING PATIENT
2.1 Skin Exposure
Quickly remove soiled clothes.
Brush off visible particulate and wipe liquids off patient with Towel.
Irrigate contaminated areas with water.

2.2 Eye Exposure
If wearing contact lenses
Remove and discard.

If eye exposure occurs
Immediately flush with water from Drink Bag.
Configure eyewash station in the SM at the CBO-3B port, then irrigate
eye until pain resolves or directed to stop by Surgeon.
If required, refer to 2.3.304 EYE PROCEDURE - EYEWASH KIT USE,
all (SODF: MED CL: EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND TREATMENT).

2.3 Respiratory Exposure
If difficulty breathing
Perform 1.108 DIFFICULTY BREATHING, all (SODF: MED CL:
EMERGENCY PROCEDURES), then:

3. PERFORMING EXAM
3.1 Call MCC-H to request PMC.

11 JUN 15
1.106_M_22813.doc

1.106 TOXIC EXPOSURE
(MED CL/HTV5 - ALL/FIN 3/Paper on ISS/T)
Page 2 of 2 pages

3.2 If comm unavailable
For eye exposure
Perform 2.3.101 EYE EXAM - GENERAL EXAM, steps 1 to 5
(SODF: MED CL: EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND TREATMENT),
then:

For all other exposures
Perform 2.0.105 EXAM – SICK CALL, all (SODF: MED CL: EXAMS,
PROCEDURES, AND TREATMENT), then:

4. OBTAINING HISTORY
Collect information regarding exposures to chemicals, medication, or other new
exposures.

5. PHOTO DOCUMENTING

NOTE
It is important to keep individuals' data separate by making separate
folders that are labeled with crew name and GMT day.

5.1 Photo document affected body parts [Digital Camera].

5.2 Downlink photos for Surgeon.
If required, refer to 1.480 D4 SETUP – MEDICAL IMAGERY, all (SODF: ISS
PTV: NIKON D4).

11 JUN 15
1.106_M_22813.doc
