2.6.302 DENTAL PROCEDURE - TEMPORARY DENTAL FILLING
(MED CL/E44 - ALL/FIN 4/T)
Page 1 of 2 pages

OBJECTIVE:
To repair dental filling.

ITEMS:
Medical Supply Pack:
Nitrile Gloves (select appropriate size)
Gauze 4"x4"
Topical & Injectable Medication Pack:
Temporary Tooth Filling
Minor Treatment Pack:
Dental Tools Kit

TOOLS:
Digital Camera
SSC

1. PHOTO DOCUMENTING DENTAL FILLING
Photo document tooth and displaced dental filling [Digital Camera].
To view anatomic reference images of the mouth and teeth, refer to Mouth
Anatomy.
If required, refer to 1.480 D4 SETUP - MEDICAL IMAGERY, all (SODF: ISS
PTV: NIKON D4).

2. REPLACING DENTAL FILLING

2.1 Don Nitrile Gloves (select appropriate size).
Inspect tooth for debris and remove any debris found.
Have subject brush teeth to assist in any debris removal.

2.2 Puncture end of Temporary Tooth Filling.
Squeeze Temporary Tooth Filling material onto finger.
Roll material into a ball.

2.3 Place Temporary Tooth Filling into the tooth cavity and gently form to
tooth.
Wipe off excess with Gauze 4"x4".
Have subject firmly bite down on Temporary Tooth Filling for 2 minutes,
allowing the Temporary Tooth Filling to form to the surfaces of the tooth
and to harden.
Adjust filling by removing and smoothing excess filling using Gauze 4"x4"
and Dental Carver File (G).

Filling will achieve initial set in 5 minutes.
Subject may resume drinking in approximately 1 hour.
Limit solid or hard food consumption on the affected side of the mouth for
first 12 to 24 hours as filling hardens.

NOTE
It is important to keep individuals' data separate by making separate
folders that are labeled with crewname and GMT day.

30 JUN 15
2.6.302_M_22896.xml

2.6.302 DENTAL PROCEDURE - TEMPORARY DENTAL FILLING
(MED CL/E44 - ALL/FIN 4/T)
Page 2 of 2 pages

3. PHOTO DOCUMENTING REPAIR

3.1 Photo document tooth and repaired filling [Digital Camera].
To view anatomic reference images of the mouth and teeth, refer to Mouth
Anatomy.

SSC
3.2 Downlink photos for Surgeon.
If required, refer to 1.480 D4 SETUP - MEDICAL IMAGERY, all (SODF:
ISS PTV: NIKON D4).

30 JUN 15
2.6.302_M_22896.xml
