2.6.304 DENTAL PROCEDURE - EXPOSED DENTAL PULP
(MED CL/E44 - ALL/FIN 5/T)
Page 1 of 2 pages

OBJECTIVE:
To treat a fractured tooth showing exposed pulp.

ITEMS:
Ziplock Bag, 12"x12" for trash
Convenience Medication Pack (White):
Ibuprofen (Motrin)
Medical Supply Pack (Green):
Gauze 4"x4"
Nitrile Gloves (select appropriate size)
Oral Medication Pack (Purple):
Hydrocodone and Acetaminophen (Vicodin HP)
Topical & Injectable Medication Pack (Brown):
Eugenol

TOOLS:
Digital Camera
SSC

1. PHOTO DOCUMENTING BROKEN TOOTH

1.1 Photo document tooth and broken fragment [Digital Camera].
To view anatomic reference images of the mouth and teeth, refer to Mouth
Anatomy.

SSC
1.2 Downlink photos for Surgeon.
If required, refer to 1.480 D4 SETUP - MEDICAL IMAGERY, all (SODF:
ISS PTV: NIKON D4).

2. Take two (2) tablets Ibuprofen (Motrin) (400mg per tablet) [Convenience
Medication Pack (White)] and one (1) tablet Hydrocodone and
Acetaminophen (Vicodin HP) (10mg/300mg per tablet) [Oral Medication Pack
(Purple)] for pain control.
If required, refer to 2.0.402 TREATING PAIN, all (SODF: MED CL: EXAMS,
PROCEDURES, AND TREATMENT).
Consult with Surgeon on type of block to place.
Perform 2.6.301 DENTAL PROCEDURE - NERVE BLOCK, all (SODF: MED
CL: EXAMS, PROCEDURES, AND TREATMENT), then:

3. TREATING WITH EUGENOL

WARNING

Minimize contact between the Eugenol and skin or gums to prevent tissue
damage.

3.1 Don Nitrile Gloves.
Moisten a small portion of a Gauze 4"x4" with Eugenol [Topical &
Injectable Medication Pack (Brown)].

30 JUN 15
2.6.304_M_23053.xml

2.6.304 DENTAL PROCEDURE - EXPOSED DENTAL PULP
(MED CL/E44 - ALL/FIN 5/T)
Page 2 of 2 pages

Squeeze excess Eugenol out of Gauze 4"x4" onto a second piece of
Gauze 4"x4" or a Dry Wipe.

3.2 Place moistened portion of Gauze 4"x4" over exposed pulp.
Have patient hold gauze with teeth for 1 to 2 minutes.

3.3 Additional placement of Eugenol should not require additional local
anesthesia.

4. Avoid chewing on affected side and keep food out of cavity.

30 JUN 15
2.6.304_M_23053.xml
